Update `MPS` manual in docs (#262)
bsc-quantic/Tenet.jl: docs/src/manual/ansatz/mps.md

# Matrix Product States (MPS)

Matrix Product States ([`MPS`](@ref)) are a Quantum Tensor Network ansatz whose tensors are laid out in a 1D chain.
Due to this, these networks are also known as _Tensor Trains_ in other scientific fields.
Depending on the boundary conditions, the chains can be open or closed (i.e. periodic boundary conditions), currently

> only `Open` boundary conditions are supported in `Tenet`.

Reviewer: > ....currently
> only `Open` boundary conditions are supported in `Tenet`.

There is a weird newline there. But also, this is the kind of information that can better be in a warning box.

```

```@example viz
fig = Figure()
open_mps = rand(MPS; n=10, maxdim=4)

plot!(fig[1,1], open_mps, layout=Spring(iterations=1000, C=0.5, seed=100))
Label(fig[1,1, Bottom()], "Open")

fig
```

The default ordering of the indices on the `MPS` constructor is (physical, left, right), but you can specify the ordering by passing the `order` keyword argument:

```@example
mps = MPS([rand(4, 2), rand(4, 8, 2), rand(8, 2)]; order=[:l, :r, :o])
```
where `:l`, `:r`, and `:o` represent the left, right, and outer physical indices, respectively.

### Canonical Forms

An `MPS` representation is not unique: a single `MPS` can be represented in different canonical forms. The choice of canonical form can affect the efficiency and stability of algorithms used to manipulate the `MPS`.
The current form of the `MPS` is stored as the trait [`Form`](@ref) and can be accessed via the `form` function:

```@example
mps = MPS([rand(2, 2), rand(2, 2, 2), rand(2, 2)])

form(mps)
```

> > :warning: Depending on the form, `Tenet` will dispatch under the hood the appropriate algorithm which assumes full use of the canonical form, so be careful when making modifications that might alter the canonical form without changing the trait.

Reviewer: I don't think this should be a warning.

> ... which assumes full use of the canonical form ...

what does this mean?

> ... so be careful when making modifications that might alter the canonical form without changing the trait.

Users **must not** modify the form field directly; the public API is to call `canonize!` or `mixed_canonize!` so they shouldn't care about this.

Author: I mean, if a user does `Tenet.canonize_site!` or some other function (`replace!`, `contract!`, ...), you lose the sense of `form` and thus we have that warning.

`Tenet` has the internal function [`Tenet.check_form`](@ref) to check if the `MPS` is in the correct canonical form. This function can be used to ensure that the `MPS` is in the correct form before performing any operation that requires it.

> Currently, `Tenet` supports the [`NonCanonical`](@ref), [`CanonicalForm`](@ref) and [`MixedCanonical`](@ref) forms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Currently, `Tenet` has the following forms implemented:
```

#### `NonCanonical` Form
In the `NonCanonical` form, the tensors in the `MPS` do not satisfy any particular orthogonality conditions. This is the default `form` when an `MPS` is initialized without specifying a canonical form. It is useful for general purposes but may not be optimal for certain computations that benefit from orthogonality.

#### `Canonical` Form

> Also known as Vidal's form, the `Canonical` form represents the `MPS` using a sequence of isometric tensors (`Γ`) and diagonal vectors (`λ`) containing the Schmidt coefficients. The `MPS` is expressed as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also known as Vidal gauge, the `Canonical` form represents the `MPS` using a sequence of isometric tensors (`Γ`) and diagonal vectors (`λ`) containing the Schmidt coefficients. Mathematically, the `MPS` is expressed as:
```

```math
| \psi \rangle = \sum_{i_1, \dots, i_N} \Gamma_1^{i_1} \lambda_2 \Gamma_2^{i_2} \dots \lambda_{N-1} \Gamma_{N-1}^{i_{N-1}} \lambda_N \Gamma_N^{i_N} | i_1, \dots, i_N \rangle \, .
```

You can convert an `MPS` to the `Canonical` form by calling `canonize!`:

```@example
mps = MPS([rand(2, 2), rand(2, 2, 2), rand(2, 2)])
canonize!(mps)

> form(mps)

Reviewer: maybe better remove this? or maybe better use `@repl` instead of `@example`

https://documenter.juliadocs.org/stable/man/syntax/#@repl-block

```

#### `MixedCanonical` Form

> In the `MixedCanonical` form, tensors to the left of the orthogonality center are left-canonical, tensors to the right are right-canonical, and the tensors at the orthogonality center (which can be `Site` or `Vector{<:Site}`) contains the entanglement information between the left and right parts of the chain. The position of the orthogonality center is stored in the `orthog_center` field.

Reviewer: You need to explain what is left-/right-canonical

Reviewer: > ... contains the entanglement information between the left and right parts of the chain. ...

I'm not convinced by this phrase but I don't know how to rephrase it jajajaj

any idea @arturgs @starsfordummies?

Reviewer 2: I'd just remove the sentence "and the tensors... "

You can convert an `MPS` to the `MixedCanonical` form and specify the orthogonality center using `mixed_canonize!`. Additionally, one can check that the `MPS` is effectively in mixed canonical form using the functions `isleftcanonical` and `isrightcanonical`, which return `true` if the `Tensor` at that particular site is left or right canonical, respectively.

```@example
mps = MPS([rand(2, 2), rand(2, 2, 2), rand(2, 2)])
mixed_canonize!(mps, Site(2))

isisometry(mps, 1; dir=:right) # Check if the first tensor is left canonical
isisometry(mps, 3; dir=:left) # Check if the third tensor is right canonical
```

form(mps)
```

##### Additional Resources
For more in-depth information on Matrix Product States and their canonical forms, you may refer to:

> - Schollwöck, U. (2011). The density-matrix renormalization group in the age of matrix product states. Annals of physics, 326(1), 96-192.

Reviewer: ahh for this kind of citations we had a Documenter plugin that I've disabled. we can reenable it.

look for DocumenterCitations.jl

```@example viz
fig = Figure() # hide

open_mps = rand(MPS; n=10, maxdim=4) # hide

plot!(fig[1,1], open_mps, layout=Spring(iterations=1000, C=0.5, seed=100)) # hide

Label(fig[1,1, Bottom()], "Open") # hide

fig # hide
```

### Canonical Forms

> An `MPS` representation is not unique: a single `MPS` can be represented in different canonical [`Form`](@ref). The choice of canonical form can affect the efficiency and stability of algorithms used to manipulate the `MPS`. You can check the canonical form of an `MPS` by calling the `form` function:

Reviewer 2: The current form of the MPS is stored as a trait (refs etc) and can be accessed via the `form` function

> 

Reviewer 2: Depending on the form, Tenet will dispatch under the hood the appropriate algorithm which makes full use of the canonical form, so be careful when making modifications that might alter the form without changing the trait.

```math
| \psi \rangle = \sum_{i_1, \dots, i_N} \Gamma_1^{i_1} \lambda_2 \Gamma_2^{i_2} \dots \lambda_{N-1} \Gamma_{N-1}^{i_{N-1}} \lambda_N \Gamma_N^{i_N} | i_1, \dots, i_N \rangle \, .
```

You can convert an `MPS` to the `Canonical` form by calling `canonize!`:

```@example
mps = MPS([rand(2, 2), rand(2, 2, 2), rand(2, 2)])
canonize!(mps)

form(mps)
```

#### `MixedCanonical` Form
In the `MixedCanonical` form, tensors to the left of the orthogonality center are left-canonical, tensors to the right are right-canonical, and the tensors at the orthogonality center (which can be `Site` or `Vector{<:Site}`) contains the entanglement information between the left and right parts of the chain. The position of the orthogonality center is stored in the `orthog_center` field.

You can convert an `MPS` to the `MixedCanonical` form and specify the orthogonality center using `mixed_canonize!`:

```@example
mps = MPS([rand(2, 2), rand(2, 2, 2), rand(2, 2)])
mixed_canonize!(mps, Site(2))

form(mps)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: One can check that the MPS is effectively in mixed canonical form using the functions `isleftcanonical` and `isrightcanonical`, ie 

```
psi = rand(MPS; n=10, maxdim=7)
mixed_canonize!(psi, Site(4))
isleftcanonical(psi, Site(3)) # True 
isrightcanonical(psi, Site(5)) # True 
```

Reviewer 2: we do have a helper function that checks that the MPS respects its form,yes ? eg 
ismixedcanonical(psi) = isleftcanonical(psi) && isrightcanonical(psi) 
where the two take as input the orthogonality center from psi to make the check and all..

Reviewer: you should not use `isleftcanonical`/`isrightcanonical` as they are deprecated, but use `isisometry` instead

##### Additional Resources
For more in-depth information on Matrix Product States and their canonical forms, you may refer to:
- Schollwöck, U. (2011). The density-matrix renormalization group in the age of matrix product states. Annals of physics, 326(1), 96-192.

## Matrix Product Operators (MPO)

Matrix Product Operators ([`MPO`](@ref)) are the operator version of [Matrix Product State (MPS)](#matrix-product-states-mps).
The major difference between them is that MPOs have 2 indices per site (1 input and 1 output) while MPSs only have 1 index per site (i.e. an output). Currently, only `Open` boundary conditions are supported in `Tenet`.

```@example viz
fig = Figure() # hide

open_mpo = rand(MPO, n=10, maxdim=4) # hide

plot!(fig[1,1], open_mpo, layout=Spring(iterations=1000, C=0.5, seed=100)) # hide

Label(fig[1,1, Bottom()], "Open") # hide

> 

Reviewer 2: To apply an MPO to an mps...
